---
layout: article
title:  The Armchair Traveler
---
Why I do what I do
------------------
In a few months, I will be traveling to several cities in Europe with my 10th grade daughter's social studies class.  We will be visiting Berlin, Dresden, Prague, Krakow and Budapest.  I have been to Europe many times, even lived and worked there, but haven't been to any of these cities.  So, I signed up to join a bunch of teenagers for 10 busy days!

When I get ready to visit a new country or city outside of the US, I like to do a bit of reading.  Yep, I am a reader.  And when I read, I usually have some theme or subject I am reading about.  I read fiction and nonfiction to really get the feel for the history and the people.  For the next three months, I will be reading about Dresden, Prague, Krakow, Berlin and Budapest.  I thought I would share what I am learning with anyone that was interested.  Most people aren't readers, so I will do that for you and help distill out the elements I feel that really enhance travel.

When I travel, and I am more often on business than not, I am not in a city to hit all the tour sites to say “yeah, been there, saw that.”  I am there to honor a country's past and its people.  I think that is what traveling is all about – appreciating different histories and customs.  Yes, countries have great food, unique stores, beautiful sites to see, but all of this, to me, means so much more when you really appreciate the place and the people.

Our Itinerary
-------------
Our adventure starts in Berlin.  We spend a day touring the city, and a second day visiting the remains of the Wall, Checkpoint Charlie, and.  We take an afternoon trip to Potsdam, then on to Dresden.  In Dresden we will... We then hit x, then x, then x.  

First Stop - Budapest
---------------------
Unfortunately, I have started my reading in reverse.  This is probably because I am most interested in Budapest.  I am have Hungarian roots (my mother's mother), and have always wanted to visit this great city.  I like to learn a bit about the history, what makes the people unique, the special foods, and what to shop for.  

Our Tour Outfitter
------------------

Past Travels
------------
About ten years ago, I went to Australia.  I did a bit of reading, including The Fatal Shore, which is a fantastic summary of the birth of Australia.  Having this great background, when I visited the prison sites, it was more moving having detailed knowledge of the hardships the prisoners and early settlers went through.  Also about ten years ago, I went to St. Petersburg, Russia.  Standing over Peter the Great's tomb was so moving.  